DOCS-2319 Synthetic Monitoring API Test, Browser Test, and Multistep API Test Edits (#11433)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/synthetics/api_tests/http_tests.md

---
## Overview

> HTTP tests allow you to send HTTP requests to your applications' API endpoints to verify responses and defined conditions, such as overall response time, status code, and header or body content.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
HTTP tests allow you to send HTTP requests to your applications' API endpoints to verify responses and defined conditions, such as overall response time, expected status code, header or body content.
```

> HTTP tests allow you to send HTTP requests to your applications' API endpoints to verify that they are responding to requests and that they meet any conditions you define, such as overall response time, status code, and header or body content.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
HTTP tests allow you to send HTTP requests to your applications' API endpoints to verify responses and defined conditions, such as overall response time, status code, and header or body content.
```

> HTTP tests can run from [managed][1] and [private locations][2] from outside or inside your network depending on your preference. HTTP tests can run on a schedule, on-demand, or directly within your [CI/CD pipelines][3].

Reviewer: I feel like the first sentence makes it less clear that managed locations are outside users' network VS private locations are inside users' network. Can you rework this sentence or put it back to the original one?

Author: ```suggestion
HTTP tests can run from both [managed][1] and [private locations][2] depending on your preference for running the test from outside or inside your network. HTTP tests can run on a schedule, on-demand, or directly within your [CI/CD pipelines][3].
```

> HTTP tests can be run from [managed][1] and [private locations][2] depending on whether you want to monitor your endpoints from outside or inside your network. HTTP tests can run on a schedule, on-demand, or directly within your [CI/CD pipelines][3].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
HTTP tests can run from [managed][1] and [private locations][2] from outside or inside your network depending on your preference. HTTP tests can run on a schedule, on-demand, or directly within your [CI/CD pipelines][3].
```

## Permissions

> By default, only users with the [Datadog Admin and Datadog Standard roles][4] can create, edit, and delete Synthetic HTTP tests. To get create, edit, and delete access to Synthetic HTTP tests, upgrade your user to one of those [default roles][4].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, only users with the [Datadog Admin and Datadog Standard roles][4] can create, edit, and delete Synthetic HTTP tests. To get create, edit, and delete access to Synthetic HTTP tests, upgrade your user to one of those two [default roles][4].
```

> By default, only users with the [Datadog Admin and Datadog Standard roles][4] can create, edit, and delete Synthetic HTTP tests. To get create, edit, and delete access to Synthetic HTTP tests, upgrade your user to one of these two [default roles][4].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By default, only users with the [Datadog Admin and Datadog Standard roles][4] can create, edit, and delete Synthetic HTTP tests. To get create, edit, and delete access to Synthetic HTTP tests, upgrade your user to one of those [default roles][4].
```

> If you have access to the [custom role feature][5], add your user to a custom role that includes `synthetics_read` and `synthetics_write` permissions for Synthetic Monitoring.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have access to the [custom role feature][5], add your user to any custom role that includes `synthetics_read` and `synthetics_write` permissions for Synthetic Monitoring.
```

#### Fast retry

> Your test can trigger retries in case of failed test result. By default, the retries are performed 300 ms after the first failed test result-this interval can be configured with the [API][14].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Your test can trigger retries in case of a failed test result. By default, the retries are performed 300 ms after the first failed test result. The retry interval can be configured with the [API][14].
```

{{< img src="synthetics/api_tests/notifications-example.png" alt="API Test Notifications"  style="width:90%;" >}}

> Click **Save** to start your test.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Click **Save** to save and start your test.
```

### Use variables

> You can use the [global variables defined in the `Settings`][18] and the [locally defined variables](#create-local-variables) in the URL, Advanced Options, and assertions of your HTTP tests.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can use the [global variables defined in the `Settings`][18] and the [locally defined variables](#create-local-variables) in the URL, advanced options, and assertions of your HTTP tests.
```

  - `TIMEOUT: Retrieving the response couldn’t be completed in a reasonable time.` indicates that the timeout happened on the overall run (which includes TCP socket connection, data transfer, and assertions).

## Permissions

By default, only users with the [Datadog Admin and Datadog Standard roles][15] can create, edit, and delete Synthetic HTTP tests. To get create, edit, and delete access to Synthetic HTTP tests, upgrade your user to one of those two [default roles][15].

If you have access to the [custom role feature][16], add your user to any custom role that includes `synthetics_read` and `synthetics_write` permissions for Synthetic Monitoring.

## Further Reading

{{< partial name="whats-next/whats-next.html" >}}

[1]: /api/v1/synthetics/#get-all-locations-public-and-private
[2]: /synthetics/private_locations
[3]: /synthetics/cicd_testing
[4]: /synthetics/api_tests/http_tests
[5]: /synthetics/search/#search
[6]: https://restfulapi.net/json-jsonpath/
[7]: https://www.w3schools.com/xml/xpath_syntax.asp
[8]: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Guide/Regular_Expressions

> [9]: /api/v1/synthetics/#create-a-test

Author: ```suggestion
[9]: /api/latest/synthetics/#edit-an-api-test
```
